Why DBOS (#362)
dbos-inc/dbos-docs: docs/why-dbos.md

title: Why DBOS?
---

### What is DBOS?

DBOS provides lightweight durable workflows built on top of Postgres.
Instead of managing your own workflow orchestrator or task queue system, you can use DBOS to add durable workflows and queues to your program in just a few lines of code.

To get started, follow the [quickstart](./quickstart.md) to install the open-source library and connect it to a Postgres database.
Then, annotate workflows and steps in your program to make it durable!

> That's all you need to do&mdash;DBOS is entirely contained in the open-source library, there's no required infrastructure for you to configure or manage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's all you need to do&mdash;DBOS is entirely contained in the open-source library, there's no additional infrastructure for you to configure or manage.
```

For example, if your checkout workflow crashes right after validating payment, instead of the order being lost forever, DBOS recovers from a checkpoint and goes on to ship the order.
Thus, DBOS makes your application **resilient to any failure**.

## DBOS vs. Other Systems

### DBOS vs. Temporal

Both DBOS and Temporal provide durable execution, but DBOS is implemented in a lightweight Postgres-backed library whereas Temporal, and architecturally similar systems such as Restate and Inngest, are implemented in an externally orchestrated server.

You can add DBOS to your program by installing the open-source library, connecting it to Postgres, and annotating workflows and steps.

> By contrast, to add Temporal to your program, you must rearchitect your program to move your durable workflows to a Temporal worker, configure a Temporal server to orchestrate those workflows, and access your workflows only through a Temporal client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By contrast, to add Temporal to your program, you must rearchitect your program to move your durable workflows and tasks (activities) to separate Temporal workers, configure a Temporal server to orchestrate those workflows, and access your workflows only through a Temporal client.
```

Reviewer: I think there are three components: a workflow server, a worker server for activities, and a Temporal server.

[This blog post](https://www.dbos.dev/blog/durable-execution-coding-comparison) makes the comparison in more detail.

> **When to use DBOS:** You need to add durable workflows to your applications with minimal rearchitecting, or your stack already includes Postgres.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**When to use DBOS:** You need to add durable workflows to your applications with minimal rearchitecting, or you are already using Postgres.
```

> **When to use Temporal:** You don't want to add Postgres to your stack, or you need a language DBOS doesn't support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**When to use Temporal:** You don't want to add Postgres to your stack, or you need a language DBOS doesn't support yet.
```

Airflow is targeted at data science use cases, providing many out-of-the-box connectors but requiring workflows be written as explicit DAGs and externally orchestrating them from an Airflow cluster.
Airflow is designed for batch operations and does not provide good performance for streaming or real-time use cases.
DBOS is general-purpose, but is often used for data pipelines, allowing developers to write workflows as code and requiring no infrastructure except Postgres.

**When to use DBOS:** You need the flexibility of writing workflows as code, or you need higher performance than Airflow is capable of (particularly for streaming or real-time use cases).

**When to use Airflow:** You need Airflow's ecosystem of connectors.

### DBOS vs. Celery/BullMQ

DBOS provides a similar queue abstraction to dedicating queueing systems like Celery or BullMQ: you can declare queues, submit tasks to them, and control their flow with concurrency limits, rate limits, timeouts, prioritization, etc.
However, DBOS queues are **durable and Postgres-backed** and integrate with durable workflows.
For example, in DBOS you can write a workflow that enqueues a thousand tasks and waits for their results.

> DBOS checkpoints the workflow and each of its tasks in Postgres, guaranteeing that even if failures or interruptions occur, the tasks will complete and the workflow will collect their reults.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DBOS checkpoints the workflow and each of its tasks in Postgres, guaranteeing that even if failures or interruptions occur, the tasks will complete and the workflow will collect their results.
```

By contrast, Celery/BullMQ are Redis-backed and don't provide workflows, so they provide fewer guarantees but better performance.

**When to use DBOS:** You need the reliability of enqueueing tasks from durable workflows.

> **When to use Celery/BullMQ**: You don't need durability, or you need very high throughput (>10K tasks/second).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**When to use Celery/BullMQ**: You don't need durability, or you need very high throughput beyond what your Postgres server can support.
```
